So a quick summary of
the performance evaluation section.
I just wanna emphasize two main points.
Number one, understand you environment.
One way to think about this is
the distinction between the two
sets of curves we showed
you early in this module.
How noisy is the environment relative
to the signal that you observe in
the performance evaluation.
We gave you two examples, one of which
quite a bit of difference between high
effort and low effort, so it's relatively
easy to draw the signal from the noise.
And conversely there's, it could be that
there's not much difference between high
effort and low effort, so it's much
harder to find the signal and the noise.
And a qualitative way to think about this
is you might characterize an environment
as being relatively chance based,
more like a lottery or more skill based?
More like a math problem.
And then ask yourself how?
Most are mixed by the way.
So you should be asking yourself
how much is my environment, or
how much is the environment of
the employees I'm evaluating
like a math problem and
how much of it is like a lottery?
A trick here though is that you need
to also understand that you're biased.
We had these biases in
making these assessments.
So, we touched on them briefly but we
tend to make non-regressive predictions.
We don't understand
regression to the mean and so
we forecast too directly from things
that have happened in the past.
We tend to believe.
The outcomes reflect the underlying
quality or efforts with this Outcome bias.
We tend to believe that we knew something
was gonna happen before it happened,
even though we didn't,
this is Hindsight bias.
And we tend to tell narratives that make
sense of all the events that we observe.
All of these things get in the way of our
appreciating the role that chance plays.
And that means that they will buy us
our understanding of the environment.
It will lead us to believe that our
environments are more like a math problem
than they actually are.
It will lead us to underestimate
the extent to which our environments
are a little bit like a lottery.
All of those are problems for the way
that we infer the effort level of our
employees, the quality of our employees,
from our performance measures.
The key of course,
the trick is to account for chance, and
the key there is persistence.
You need to find the most fundamental
performance measure possible.
That means the most skill-related.
And the most skill related,
the most fundamental will be
the most persistent overtime.
So we gave you an extent of example
of how we did the NFL draft.
But the key tactic is to
take these split samples and
ask are the differences we observe in
one period there in the second period?
That's the key test for persistence,
that's the key test for true skill,
true signal as opposed to chance.
And finally, some critical questions.
You can think of this as a battery you
can take to any performance evaluation
meeting, to any budget meeting,
resource allocation meeting.
Anything that turns on
judgements about an employee or
technology, some kind of performance
evaluation, take these questions.
Are the differences persistent or random?
How do we know that this
isn't just good or bad luck?
Is the sample large enough
to draw strong conclusions?
How can we make the sample larger?
How many different signals
are we really tapping into here?
How can we make them as
independent as possible?
And then finally,
what else do we care about?
Are we measuring enough?
What can we measure that's
actually more fundamental than
what we're measuring right now?
The keys persistence, large samples,
independent assessments, and
more fundamental measures,
more process measures.
You can take these critical
questions to any evaluation and
improve the decision making process.